# Assessing-the-Association-between-Social-Media-Metrics-Scores-and-Revenues-for-S-P

Since 2014, marketers have increasingly invested in social media to communicate with a larger audience at a cheaper cost than have ever allowed traditional media. A research published in the ​Statistics Portal Statista predicts this spending to reach about 17 billions US dollars in the United States by 2019. Behind this increasing spending is the implicit assumption that an increased traffic on company-specific social media channels generates an increase in sales, and therefore revenue. How statistically reliable is this assumption? In other words, how strong is the association between user engagement on social media and revenue, regardless of whether the engagement reflects a positive or negative sentiment? This relation can be most reliably studied on social media active companies that release their revenue on a quarterly basis: S&P 500 companies. To capture user engagement, we used 70 social media metrics provided by SaaS social media analytics company, Shareablee, the official social media analytics partner of comScore. We tracked both social media metrics scores and revenue, from the income statement administered by
 3
Capital IQ database, over 9 quarters from January 1st 2015 to March 31st 2017. Such period of time was long enough to identify patterns, and short enough to account for the fast change in the way social media platforms are used. Therefore, this paper studies the association between social media metrics scores and revenues on a quarterly basis for S&P companies that have a social media active Instagram (IG), Facebook​ ​(FB),​ ​Twitter​ ​(TW),​ ​and​ ​Youtube​ ​(YT)​ ​accounts.
